---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cybertron/history-society-and-culture/primacy/"}
---
  
>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 



The idea that a [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Matrix\|Prime]] should lead Cybertron is a comparatively new idea, dating back to the aftermath of the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Quintesson War\|Quintesson War]], where 
##### Notes
---
- The interwar Primes are a blend of their portrayals in G1, Aligned, and IDW. The “lineage” of Matrix-bearers (both real and legitimate) is taken largely from G1, starting with [[Characters/Nova Prime\|Nova Prime]], who fell in battle during the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Quintesson War\|Quintesson War]], before [[Characters/Nominus Prime\|a character that is a blend of Nominus Prime and Guardian Prime]] takes the Matrix and presides over an era of peace on post-Quintesson Cybertron, with [[Zeta Prime\|Zeta Prime]] succeeding him, who was then succeeded by [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|Sentinel Prime]], who met his end at [[Characters/Megatron\|Megatron’s]] hands. While they never used a [fake Matrix](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Shadowplay,_Part_1:_Post_Hoc), the interwar Primes lying about being chosen comes from IDW. 
- There are many reasons that the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Matrix\|Matrix]] did not choose the interwar Primes, but the Doylist reason is because, much like with [[Characters/Optimus Prime\|Optimus]], I wanted to tell a story about the way authoritarians distort history for their own purposes, and the way that symbols, even if they were once perfectly innocent, can be corrupted. The interwar Primes used not just the legacy of Nova Prime, a war hero who gave his life for Cybertron, but the legacy of the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Thirteen\|Thirteen]], to grant themselves legitimacy. They positioned themselves as their successors, 
- I merged the characters of Guardian Prime and Nominus Prime because having both a Guardian Prime and a Sentinel Prime running around would get confusing fast. 
- The key to each of the interwar Primes is that Nominus was loved, Zeta wanted to be loved, and Sentinel just did not care. Nominus was a talented politician who managed to keep people genuinely happy, who balanced heavy military spending with social safety nets and public works that not only improved the government’s image, but genuinely made people believe in and _trust_ this new system. Zeta’s time was remembered as an era of stagnation, of careful, slow policy changes that moved ever-so-incrementally. Zeta preferred coalition-building, and relied heavily upon a core body of leaders (all his former comrades from the war). 
-  Out of the three interwar Primes, Sentinel was the most averse to government spending, especially in the public sector. He was quite fond of tax cuts, and he was deeply opposed to any kind of organization among the working class, seeing it as a direct threat to the very fabric of Cybertronian society. As a politician and as a public figure, he thrived on confrontation, and put on a steely, uncompromising front— as Prime, he had the first and last word, and would brook no dissent. Sentinel, like no other Prime, really embodied the government’s warped priorities— spending as little as possible on anything that could tangibly benefit its citizens, while dumping as much as possible into an already bloated military budget.
