---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/characters/optimus-prime/"}
---
  
>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 

While he may not have been the [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|first]], or even the [[Cybertron/Primus\|greatest]] monster to [[The Great War/Great War\|claw]] [[The Great War/Factions/Autobots/Autobot\|his]] [[The Great War/Major Events/Bombing of Vos\|way]] into the annals of Cybertronian history, Optimus Prime stands as one of the 

Beneath this image of nigh untouchable strength lay a ‘bot ruled not by grand ambitions or a lust for cobquest, but by paranoia and shame. Optimus Prime was eternally obsessed with his image, with cobbling together a legacy 

---
Forged in [[Cybertron/Polities/Kalis\|Kalis]] alongside his [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Split-spark Siblings\|twin brother]] [[Characters/Ultra Magnus\|Dion]], Orion Pax was always the ambitious sort.  

##### Notes
---
- Mirror Mirror Optimus is a triple-changer, transforming into an [amphibious truck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amphibious_vehicle#Trucks_and_barges) and a VTOL aircraft.  This is an intentional departure on my part from traditional depictions of Optimus Prime, to reflect Optimus being ashamed of his past. Where Megatron is proud of who he is and where he came from, Optimus wholeheartedly believes that as a dockworker, his life meant nothing, and during his life he did everything he could to escape where he came from.
- Much like the [[Characters/Nominus Prime\|three]] [[Zeta Prime\|Primes]] [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|before]] him, Mirror Mirror Optimus was never chosen by the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Matrix\|Matrix]]. While the in-universe reason is that the Matrix simply did not find him particularly appealing, the out-of-universe reason is to reflect the way that real-world fascists claim legacies that do not belong to them in order to create legitimacy to themselves. By claiming the title of Prime, Optimus is not only claiming that he is the legitimate head of the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Primacy\|Cybertronian government]], he is calling back to the legacy of the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Thirteen\|Thirteen]]. He carries the Matrix in his chest, yes, but it is yet another part of his image. It’s all theater, grasping at bits and pieces of Cybertronian history to grant himself legitimacy and claim a legacy that does not belong to him. He’s a textbook fascist, distorting history and pulling together a legacy that justifies all he’s done and all he will do, tying himself to symbols of culture and power and tainting their memory.
- Optimus and [[Characters/Ultra Magnus\|Ultra Magnus]] being twins is a nod to their relationship in both the Dreamwave and Classics continuity, and the friendship between Orion Pax and Dion in War Dawn. His friendship with [[Characters/Outback\|Outback]] is a nod to one of my [favorite](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/...The_Harder_They_Die!) [story](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Under_Fire!) [arcs](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Distant_Thunder!) in the Marvel U.K. comics. Instead of only having met during the war, when Optimus was at his lowest, they met long before the war, when Optimus was simply a man. 
- In Mirror Mirror, there exists... essentially, an artificial accent that nobody is actually raised speaking, but exists nonetheless. It is an Iaconian accent that emerged from newscasting (as Iacon has historically been a center of publishing and broadcasting), and is generally percieved to be neutral, with no indicators of class or status. It as an accent *only* exists in Neocybex, which is the lingua franca of modern Cybertron. This is the accent that Mirror Mirror Optimus intentionally puts on, as the specific Kalisian accent that comes naturally to him is one that is heavily associated with the working-class parts of the region, and especially associated with the docks. He is not pretending to be Iaconian, but he is doing his best to obfuscate his background. He is not ashamed of being from Kalis (which is Cybertron’s only coastal region, and is heavily associated with trade on sea, land, air and space) but he *is* ashamed of his humble origins that you can clearly hear in his accent, so he puts on an accent that is about as far removed from that as possible. 
- While Optimus obviously contrasts Megatron, he and [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|Sentinel Prime]] are also mirrors. Sentinel directly parallels Optimus, his “successor” (though between the two, were Sentinel alive to see it, only Optimus would consider himself Sentinel’s successor) in many ways— both are defined by their paranoia, both rose from a rather lowly position (soldier, dock worker) to Prime, but where they diverge the most is their view on their own past. Optimus was always running from his, doing his damndest to bury any memory of Orion Pax. Sentinel, on the other hand, was utterly defined by his past as a soldier— the experiences he had during the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Quintesson War\|Quintesson War]] shaped who he was as a person, and shaped each and every one of his policies even before he became Prime. He was a soldier, through and through, and even when elevated to the highest position on Cybertron, he maintained a rather stiff, military bearing. He was never one for decadence or even flashiness, he kept his government simple, austere. Optimus, meanwhile, was obsessed with grandiosity, with projecting an image of untouchable strength. Sentinel’s paranoia was directed outward, at aliens, at the society he ruled, while Optimus directed his inward, at those around him. Sentinel never doubted the devotion of his men, while Optimus convinced himself he had to kill his own brother. 
- There is a non-zero chance that his severed head was kicked around like a football. I will never confirm nor deny this.