---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/characters/rewind/"}
---
  
>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 

Rewind is a crotchety, cantankerous ‘bot who’d much rather be left alone with his datapads than do just about anything. Oh, he has friends — or so he claims, at least — but he’s never been the social type. When he landed a job at the [[Hall of Records\|Hall of Records]], he was over the moon at the thought of sinking into a life of nothing but dusty old datapads, where he’d spend his days alone, methodically cataloging every bit and byte of information that was important enough to store. Of course, nothing goes Rewind’s way— the chattiest [[Characters/Prowl\|investigative journalist]] on Cybertron just *had* to come knocking ‘cause of some case or another, and just had to stay in his life long enough for Rewind to get attached. Not that he’d admit he is. Prowl’s insufferable, he swears. Can’t wait to be rid of him. 

And that chatterbox just had to introduce Rewind to a [[Characters/Chromedome\|former partner]] of his, thinking the two would hit it off. And, of course, he just *had* to be right. Prowl — ever the romantic, blech — would say it was love at first sight, and Rewind would… he’s not sure how to deny that, so don’t mention it to him. The three of them formed quite the team (even Rewind has to admit, they were good) using their talents and connections to solve some of the strangest mysteries on Cybertron. Chromedome would be hired for a seemingly mundane case, and when it inevitably spiraled wildly out of control, Rewind would trawl Cybertron’s archives for every scrap of information, while Prowl and Chromedome stuck their noses just about everywhere, whether they belonged or not. 

As time went on, and the political situation on Cybertron began to [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|deteriorate]], Prowl began investigating the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Primacy\|wrong]] [[Senate\|people]]. When a colleague and on-again, off-again [[Tarantulas\|lover]] of his disappeared under mysterious circumstances, Chromedome and Rewind began to fear for their friend’s safety… and Rewind began to wonder if those [[Institute\|nonsensical]] [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Shadowplay\|theories]] of his had some truth to them after all. 

Then, the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Decepticon Uprising\|Decepticon Uprising]] turned everything about their world upside down. The [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Primacy\|Primacy]] fell, the cities of Cybertron regained their independence, and it seemed like anything could happen. Just as the dust began to settle, Prowl came to them with a warning— the fighting was [[The Great War/Great War\|far from over]]. There was a [[The Great War/Factions/Autobots/Autobot\|fear]] in his voice that they had never heard before. Heeding his warning, they left the planet, relocating to [[Paradron\|Paradron]], while Prowl remained on Cybertron. When the Great War broke out, they were horrified. 
##### Notes
---
- Rewind does, in fact, transform into a [super space tank](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Rewind_(G1)#Timelines). On account of Mirror Mirror lacking mass-shifting, a Cybertronian who turns into a memory stick would be so small in robot mode that the rest of the cast would be at risk of inhaling him. 
- Chromedome, the sap, planned their [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/Spark Bond\|conjunxing]] celebration down to the letter, finding the loveliest spot on a cliff overlooking the [[Cybertron/Locations/Mithril Sea\|Mithril Sea]]. Prowl gave a heartfelt speech, wishing the both of them a long life full of love. 