---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/characters/thunderclash/"}
---
  
>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 

There are some Cybertronians who are wise beyond their years. There are others who are jaded beyond their years. There are some who just act twelve times their age. Thunderclash is an [[M.T.O.\|M.T.O.]], built during the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/History/Decepticon Uprising\|Decepticon Uprising]], but you’d never know it unless he told you— because he acts like he’s seen it all, much to the amusement of [[Characters/Spinister\|his]] [[Moonheart\|older]] [[Flatline\|colleagues]]. 

Though, one can forgive Thunderclash for being far too jaded for a ‘bot his age, considering his origins. Thunderclash was built by [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/History/Primacy\|the Cybertronian military under Sentinel Prime]] in the last days of the uprising, and he was dropped into the field with barely an hour’s training, told to kill for a cause he didn’t understand, and a government that made him to be disposable. Thunderclash might not have understood much of, well, anything about the world around him, but he came to the conclusion that any [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|so-called leader]] that would send him to die without even telling him what he was dying for wasn’t worth fighting for in the first place. 

As he found himself bleeding out in a ditch, barely given a second glance by the ‘bots he was supposed to have been fighting alongside, Thunderclash — known then by a designation, rather than a name — contemplated what a foul hand he’d been dealt. That was, until, a medic, a [[The Great War/Factions/Decepticons/Decepticon\|Decepticon]] medic, discovered him, and set to patching him up. The first kindness he’d ever experienced in his life came from someone he’d been told was his enemy. 

He remembered that kindness, even after he’d fled the battle before he could be captured. He thought of it as he gouged out his own insignias. Thunderclash found himself drawn to the Decepticon cause, devouring any of [[Characters/Megatron\|Megatron’s writings]] that he could get his hands on. The more he learned, the more he came to agree. He found that Megatron’s books and [[Characters/Galvatron\|Galvatron’s]] speeches struck a chord in him, and he could relate to their experiences— being seen as disposable, sent to suffer die for ‘bots who barely considered them people. He joined the Decepticons as soon as he could, with some small part of him hoping to find the medic who saved him.

Despite his only real skills being how to fight and fly, Thunderclash found himself drawn to medicine. When [[Flatline\|Flatline]] needed an assistant in a pinch, Thunderclash stepped up, and this got him noticed. He was soon something of an apprentice to the various Decepticon medics, and he proved a fast and eager learner. He impressed his mentors, and he quickly became a full-fledged combat medic. 
##### Notes
---
- This is Mirror Mirror [Ambulon](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Ambulon).  He was never used for any sort of combiner experiment on account of combiners not existing Mirror Mirror (the size issues alone…) and thus he kept his original name, which I’ve decided was Thunderclash, because his original name supposedly belonged to someone readers knew. I have jettisoned the far more famous [Thunderclash](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Thunder_Clash) so that Ambulon keeps the name. 
- While making him a Decepticon-turned-Autobot was the obvious choice, I felt it would be much more interesting for various traitors and defectors to be defined by their loyalty instead, in the same way Shattered Glass takes on Starscream are utterly devoted to Megatron. 
- Aesthetically, his helicopter alternate mode resembles a [UH-1 “Huey”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bell_UH-1_Iroquois) as a nod to him (entirely unintentionally) acting far older than he really is. It also means he and Spinister (an old ‘bot who acts less than half his age) match, as Spinister turns into a [CH-47](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_CH-47_Chinook). 
- All M.T.O.s in Mirror Mirror are given a number. His original designation, UH-B210, is a nod to the [text story he debuted in](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Bullets). The B comes from the title of the story, and the 210 comes from the year of release, 2010. In-universe, the UH comes from his role as a utility helicopter, the B comes from the fact that he’s a variant of an existing mold, and the 210 indicates that he was the 210th built. His mold is named the UH-91B, with the 9 and 1 coming from the publication date of September 1st. 
- His [[Decepticon Badge\|Decepticon badge]] is made from metal he harvested from the site of his first battle, so he would always remember why he was fighting. 