---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cybertron/cybertronian-biology/cold-construct/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---
  
>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 

A [[Cybertronians\|Cybertronian]] that was assembled in a factory, rather than being allowed to [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Forging\|form]] naturally. Cold construction sees a spark that has yet to ignite harvested from a [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Sparkfield\|Sparkfield]] and placed into a pre-fab body, with the "cold" in the term "cold construction" coming from the fact that these sparks were not allowed to undergo the explosive ignition process that they naturally would have, coming online "cold." 

Cold construction began as a government-run project during the reign of [[Characters/Nominus Prime\|Characters/Nominus Prime]], as a response to the massive loss of life caused by the [[The Quintesson War/Quintesson War\|Quintesson War]]. The cold construction project as it was carried out under Nominus Prime had three primary goals. The first was to bring the Cybertronian population back to its pre-war numbers as quickly as possible, to ensure there were enough workers to rebuild Cybertronian society. The second was to create jobs and jump-start the post-war economy. The third was to ensure that, in the event of a second invasion, Cybertron would have bodies to throw at the enemy. Cold construction also served to bolster the new unified Cybertronian state, by creating citizens who had known no other life, and who had no connection to the pre-war world. Though Nominus Prime originally intended cold construction to be a temporary measure, once production had entered full swing, it was deemed too useful - and too profitable - to stop. His successors, [[c/Primacy/Zeta Prime\|Zeta]] and [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|Characters/Sentinel Prime]] were all too happy to let the industry expand. 

By the time Nominus Prime’s successor, Zeta Prime, ascended to power, cold construction was one of the most profitable industries on Cybertron, and under Zeta's auspices, the industry further entwined itself with every level of the Cybertronian government and military. 

Most models of cold construct fell into one of two categories: a civilian model, meant to ensure population growth, and a military model, meant to create a ready-to-draft population should a war break out. There were exceptions, in the form of limited runs, proofs-of-concept, testbed units, and other one-offs produced under special circumstances. When a new model was needed, military, federal or local governments would draft up requirements, and companies would compete for the contract, producing living proofs-of-concept that the buyer would then choose from. 

By the time Sentinel Prime took power, the cold construction industry was a major employer in cities [[Cybertron/Polities/Vos\|Vos]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Praxus\|Praxus]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Polyhex\|Polyhex]] and [[Cybertron/Polities/Kaon\|Kaon]]. Vosian and Polyhexian factories tended to focus almost exclusively on military models, while those in Praxus and Kaon typically produced a wide range of civilian models. Praxus was particularly famous for its police models, which often incorporated Vosian military technology.

Typically, a model would remain in production as long as it was relevant. Despite the industry itself being immensely profitable, cold construction companies cut costs wherever they could. Faces were one of the most expensive parts of a cold construct, so to cut costs, 

In the last years of the [[Cybertron/History/Decepticon Uprising\|Decepticon Uprising]], the Cybertronian government began building cold constructs to serve solely as [[Cybertron/History/The Great War/MTO\|soldiers]]. Later on, during the [[The Great War/Great War\|Great War]], the [[Autobots\|Autobots]] would do much the same in an attempt to compensate for the manpower difference between the two factions. 

After the end of the Great War, cold construction was almost universally abolished across Cybertron. 
##### Notes
---
- While the term “constructed cold” came from IDW, I decided to take things in a very different direction. In Mirror Mirror, there is no difference between forged and cold constructed sparks, and every spark placed into a pre-fab frame is one harvested directly from a hot spot. 
- Cold construction is one of the oldest parts of Mirror Mirror, and has remained relatively unchanged compared to many other aspects of the universe. From the moment Mirror Mirror became an original continuity rather a Shattered Glass take on Generation One, I knew cold construction was going to be a part of it. 
- Cold construction is an extension of the militarism of pre-war Cybertron, and a direct product of its dystopic conditions. Unlike in IDW, where cold construct sparks are meaningfully different, in Mirror Mirror, they are essentially, forged Cybertronians who were robbed of not just their ability to find their true shape, but their very childhoods as a result of a paranoid and militaristic government that wanted to create the perfect war machine. “What if the United States government contracted Lockheed Martin to build people?” 