---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cybertron/cybertronian-biology/reproduction/"}
---
  
>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 

All [[Cybertronians\|Cybertronians]] begin their lives as [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Spark\|sparks]], fracturing either from the spark of [[Cybertron/Primus\|Primus]] himself, or that of one of the [[Titan\|Titans]].

On [[Cybertron\|Cybertron]], sparks form on the topmost layer of the planet, miles below the surface. They spend the next several millennia making their way to the surface of the planet, where they will lay dormant for decades, if not centuries. When conditions are favorable, these sparks will violently explode, superheating the [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Living Metal\|living metal]] around them in a process called “ignition.” After ignition, living metal will coalesce around the spark, following the instructions written into the spark itself to build a body. 

Sparks, with very few exceptions, emerge and ignite in a few dozen locations across the planet, known as either sparkfields, or hot spots. The rate at which sparks ignite is extraordinarily low, though it varies from hot spot to hot spot, and it is entirely possible for hot spots to go dormant and release thousands of years'‘ worth of sparks practically at once. This curious method of reproduction has profoundly shaped Cybertronian history, society, and culture. Due to the fact that Cybertronian reproduction is tied to hot spots, it makes cities that are sufficiently far from one dependent entirely upon immigration (or, later, cold construction) to grow their population, making the possibility of Cybertronian civilization spreading off-world somewhere between unfeasible and impossible. 

Due to the fact that Cybertronians depend wholly upon sparkfields for their population, the vast majority of political entities on Cybertron have been city-states built around a cluster of hot spots, controlling vast swathes of sparsely-inhabited territory, or small nations controlling a handful of cities, themselves clustered around a group of hot spots. The sole exception was the unified Cybertronian government that formed in the wake of the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/History/Quintesson War\|Quintesson War]], which saw the various city-states and nations of Cybertron brought under a single government, ruling out of [[Cybertron/Polities/Iacon\|Iacon]]. 

In the wake of the [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/History/Quintesson War\|Quintesson War]], the Cybertronian population had been reduced by more than half. The state of the planet lead to widespread panic as to when, if ever, the Cybertronian species would get back to pre-war numbers, and when combined with the fear of another invasion, the newly-formed Cybertronian government began to look into ways of raising the Cybertronian population, to bolster the economy, and rebuild Cybertron’s armies. 

Under the reign of [[Characters/Nominus Prime\|Nominus Prime]], the process of cold construction was developed. The term “cold construct” comes from the fact that the process involves taking a spark crystal that has yet to ignite and placing it in a pre-built frame, and performing a controlled ignition afterwards. Essentially, the sparks are cold when they enter their frame. 

In [[Cybertron/History, Society and Culture/History/Quintesson War\|times]] of [[The Great War/Great War\|war]] and political turmoil, [[M.T.O.\|concerns]] regarding population have never been far from the [[Characters/Sentinel Prime\|minds]] [[Senate\|of]] [[Zeta Prime\|Cybertron’s]] [[Characters/Nominus Prime\|leaders]]. 
##### Forged
---
**Sparklings**
The term “sparkling” refers to a developing Cybertronian that has not yet reached adulthood. 

Sparklings begin their lives as remarkably lumpy creatures with something resembling optics, and a hole in their head that could be called a mouth, and little else. In the first few hours of their lives, sparklings are practically liquid, and they stay rather soft to the touch for the first few months. 

When these lumps begin to solidify, they start to take on a more distinct shape, with large optics, a very large mouth, and nubs for limbs. After they do solidify, they enter a brief (but memorable) state of ravenous hunger, where they do little else but eat, devouring any metal within reach, regardless of whether it is the living metal that makes up the planet, or the floor they are sitting on. This is their frame preparing for growth, stockpiling the necessary material to build their future body. These sparklings cannot properly speak, and communicate via a series of chirps and beeps. 

After they’ve consumed enough metal, they enter a state that could almost be described as hibernation, where they largely only sleep and grow, taking on a smaller version of what will become their final, adult shape. The first parts to to take on a distinct form are their face and hands. This is the stage where their [kibble](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Kibble) begins to develop, and it tends to be quite oversized for the small body it belongs to. Often, sparklings will have no idea what to do with their new kibble, and their natural curiosity compared with their small size leads to all sorts of mishaps, ranging from little tanks shooting holes in the ceiling, to tiny jets soaring out the window on thrusters they didn’t have yesterday. This stage is where they begin to develop speech, though their capacity for it is quite limited, and many do not speak at all at this stage.

The next stage is the one they’ll spend the majority of their childhood in, and it’s considered to have begun when the Cybertronian is capable of transforming for the very first time. They’re smaller than they will be in adulthood, and their proportions are quite a bit stubbier, but otherwise, they’ve taken on their final shape. This is also the stage where their color nanites develop. In earlier stages of growth, sparklings are practically transparent, with the light of their spark being seen through their frame. 

The final appearance of a Cybertronian is determined by several factors, ranging from the instructions written within their spark, the conditions in which they’re raised, and the Cybertronians around them. A developing Cybertronian’s code will take note of the appearances of the adults around them, and mimic their features. 

They almost immediately start talking, and are roughly equivalent to human children ages ten to twelve. While the first three stages combined last less than a year, this stage lasts quite some time, and growth drops to a snail’s pace. 

**Upbringing**
How exactly sparklings are brought up depends on the city they emerge in. 

In cities like [[Cybertron/Polities/Vos\|Vos]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Tarn\|Tarn]], and [[Cybertron/Polities/Kaon\|Kaon]], sparklings will typically be given to a mentor who is responsible for teaching them about the world and helping them integrate into society. This mentor is generally responsible for their social development, as their academic development is handled by state-run schools. What else their mentor is responsible for, and how that mentor is viewed, depends on the local culture. 

In Vos, for example, mentors are viewed as teachers, and though some choose to keep them in their lives after they reach adulthood (and some may even view them as family, albeit not parents) it is not at all considered unusual to have very little contact with them past childhood. Due to Vosian culture revolving around elective kinship, whether or not contact persists, and whether or not the relationship becomes one of kinship, is entirely up to the individuals involved. Some mentors may maintain long-standing relationships with one or two former charges, while only occasionally corresponding with others.

[[Characters/Bitstream\|Bitstream]], for example, continues to visit his mentor. He and his brother [[Sunstorm\|Sunstorm]] regard them as family— though they do not necessarily view them as a parent, as the concept is foreign to them. [[Characters/Flyhigh\|Flyhigh]], on the other hand, barely thinks about his mentor and regards them simply as the person responsible for ensuring he made it to adulthood successfully and could integrate into society (and he thinks they did a crap job of it, anyhow) and though he knows ‘bots who were raised by the same mentor, he doesn’t regard them as kin, or really, significant to him in any way. He views them the same way a human might view someone who went to the same school a decade or two before they did.

Tarn and Kaon had a similar approach to Vos, where caretakers were assigned to prepare a sparkling (or sparklings, in the case of split-spark siblings) for adulthood, but unlike Vos, one is expected to remain close to their caretaker throughout their life— though they are not seen as kin. Unlike Vos, where most ‘bots will be assigned one caretaker, sparklings will be given to groups of two or more mentors (typically friends) and will be looked after by their social circles. Though, during [[Characters/Megatron\|Megatron]] and [[Characters/Galvatron\|Galvatron’s]] childhoods, as living conditions deteriorated for Tarn’s working class, many sparklings were raised in group homes run either by the state or by private citizens, which provided care and education of varying quality. 

Cities like [[Cybertron/Polities/Polyhex\|Polyhex]], [[Nyon\|Nyon]] and [[Helex\|Helex]], on the other hand, do regard a sparkling’s caretakers as their family— this is rather unusual. They don’t use the word “parent” but for them, “caretaker” and “mentor” might as well mean the same thing. 

In Polyhex, a sparkling will have one (and only one, irrespective of whether that ‘bot has amica or conjunxes) primary caretaker, but they will be raised communally by not only their caretaker’s immediate social circle, but by neighbors and those around them. A caretaker’s kin (both in the sense of being raised by or with them, and elective kin, conjunxes, and amica) will be regarded as kin of their sparkling. 

In Helex, a sparkling will be assigned multiple caretakers, and they will be raised by their families, both immediate and extended, and while their larger community still factors in, it is to a lesser degree than in Polyhex. Unlike in Polyhex, it is entirely normal for one to live with their caretakers past adulthood, with multiple generations often living in the same house, provided there is enough space. 

In cities like [[Cybertron/Polities/Kalis\|Kalis]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Iacon\|Iacon]] and [[Cybertron/Polities/Nova Cronum\|Nova Cronum]], sparklings are raised communally in what are essentially state-run boarding schools. 

Prior to the [[The Great War/Great War\|Great War]], sparklings in Kalisian schools would be sorted based on their test scores into either an academic or vocational track. Students sorted into the former will be prepared for higher education, while students sorted into the latter will be sent to trade school. While most Cybertronian cultures have a form of elective kinship, the only kinship broadly recognized in Kalisian society is spark-based. 
##### Constructed Cold
---
Prior to the [[The Great War/Great War\|Great War]], cold construct bodies were mass-produced by various companies on behalf of the Cybertronian government. When the government required a new line of cold constructs, they would grant contracts to various companies to produce concept demonstrators (which were fully sapient Cybertronians like any other) that would be required to demonstrate certain traits, such as a fighter jet being carrier-capable, with CTOL and CVTOL capabilities. The government would then choose whichever demonstrator it preferred, and it would award the mass production contract to the company behind it. Often, these contracts were awarded by regional governments, with [[Cybertron/Polities/Vos\|Vos]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Praxus\|Praxus]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Tarn\|Tarn]], [[Cybertron/Polities/Polyhex\|Polyhex]] and [[Cybertron/Polities/Kaon\|Kaon]] frequently commissioning the development of new cold construct lines for various purposes. 

Cold constructs begin their lives as adults, albeit adults with zero life experience. Depending on their city of origin and intended function, they would be sent straight to boot camp, a military academy, or a school run either by the city, the state, or the company that created them. 

Due to faces being one of the most complex parts of a Cybertronian, and thus rather expensive part to produce, especially at scale, the vast majority of cold construct lines lacked full faces, having either a visor, a faceplate, or both. Often, the same face molds would be reused across lines, leading to a variety of different ‘bots with the exact same face. 
##### Notes
---
- While the term “constructed cold” came from IDW, I decided to take things in a very different direction. In Mirror Mirror, there is no difference between forged and cold constructed sparks, and every spark placed into a pre-built frame should have, in a just world, gone through the same growth stages as any forged Cybertronian. 
- Cold construction is one of the oldest parts of Mirror Mirror, and has remained relatively unchanged compared to many other aspects of the universe. From the moment Mirror Mirror became an original continuity rather a Shattered Glass take on Generation One, I knew cold construction was going to be a part of it. 
- Cold construction is an extension of the militarism of pre-war Cybertron, and a direct product of its dystopic conditions. Unlike in IDW, where cold construct sparks are meaningfully different, in Mirror Mirror, they are essentially, forged Cybertronians who were robbed of not just their ability to find their true shape, but their very childhoods as a result of a paranoid and militaristic government that wanted to create the perfect war machine. “What if the United States government contracted Lockheed Martin to build people?” 
- No mechanical species is capable of sexual reproduction. It’s one of the key factors that determines whether a species is organic or mechanical. 
- The reason that sparklings exist in Mirror Mirror, aside from the fact that I like exploring what childhood looks like for aliens and I think the idea of Cybertronians having a larval stage is really funny, is to hammer home both the horrors of the Great War, and the exploitative nature of the pre-war government. Aside from the obvious “what if Lockheed Martin and Raytheon made people?” one of the most horrifying things about cold constructs is the way that they are deprived of a childhood in every sense— they aren’t only stuffed into an adult frame right away, they are literally denied the ability to explore themselves and find out who they are on their own. They have no family ties, they have nobody to guide them through life beyond the company that created them, or the military that paid for their existence. This is even worse for M.T.O.s, who aren’t even given any education beyond the ability to kill— they are newborns, and yet, they are denied the innocence of childhood before they even have the chance to grasp what it is they’re losing. Giving Cybertronians a childhood makes the idea of being put through boot camp or outright dropped into a battlefield within a few hours of waking up all the more visceral— the companies that defined the pre-war world and the conflict that defined the wartime one stole a whole chapter of their lives from them, because they wanted workers and soldiers that they didn’t have to wait for. Those forged during or before the war are akin to the Lost Generation, the tens of thousands of boys fresh out of high school who enlisted to fight in WWI. They’re thrown into war before they understand even themselves, and have their sense of the world so warped by conflict that once it ends, they find themselves lost in peacetime because they only ever learned to define themselves during and by the war that had been going on their whole adult life, if not their entire life.
- The growth cycle of sparklings is patterned off of insects! This is a leftover bit of old lore, where Primus patterned Cybertronians off of hive insects, but I decided to keep it even though I’ve changed the surrounding lore quite a bit. 