---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cybertron/cybertronian-biology/sparkling/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


>[!warning] 
>This page is either entirely or partially incomplete. 

A young [[Cybertronians\|Cybertronian]]. Sparklings are created when a [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Spark\|spark]] undergoes [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Forging\|ignition]]. 

A sparkling goes through four major phases. The first lasts a scant few days after their creation. These newly-formed sparklings hardly resemble the Cybertronians they will become, and instead are more akin to a blob with a head, optics, and nubs where their limbs will be. They are entirely transparent, with the glow of their spark seen through their plating. For the first few days of their life, they are incredibly fragile. 

In the second phase, their frame begins to solidify, with identifiable features beginning to form. The moment their mouths develop, sparklings are utterly ravenous, devouring any metal within reach in order to fuel their growth. In this phase, sparklings imprint on the adult Cybertronians around them, copying their features and mimicking their behavior. The first parts of the body to take shape are their face and hands. 

The next phase sees the sparkling become increasingly lethargic, as the body assembles itself. Their body, using a mix of the hard-coded instructions in their spark and the features they observed among adult Cybertronians, begins to take a smaller, stubbier version of what will be its final shape. Wheels, wings, and other pieces of their alternate mode grow in, often being a bit oversized at first. Similarly, weapons begin to form, alongside the targeting systems developing in their processors. 

---
**Family**
What a “normal life” is varies wildly across Cybertron, as does the idea of family and what it even _means._ How, exactly, sparklings are handled depends on the city-state and its culture. 

In [[Cybertron/Polities/Vos\|Vos]], sparklings will be given to a mentor that is charged with caring for them, teaching them about the world, and helping them integrate into society. The idea of family and kinship as something that is inherent beyond the case of literal split-spark kin does not exist in Vos— yes, sparklings will be cared for by older Cybertronians for an extended period of time, but the idea that these are their parents or that they should have any kind of special bond past sparklinghood is entirely up to individual choice. 

[[Characters/Decepticons/Decepticon Intelligence/Bitstream\|Bitstream]] continues to visit his caretaker, who he and his brother [[Sunstorm\|Sunstorm]] regard as family— though they do not necessarily view them as a parent. [[Characters/Decepticons/Scavengers/Flyhigh\|Flyhigh]], on the other hand, barely thinks about his caretaker and regards them simply as the person responsible for ensuring he made it to adulthood successfully and could integrate into society (and he thinks they did a crap job of it, anyhow) and though he knows ‘bots who were raised by the same caretaker, he doesn’t regard them as kin, or really, significant to him in any way. 

In Tarn, a sparkling’s caretakers are akin to teachers, rather than parents. They prepare a sparkling (or sparklings, in the case of split-spark siblings) for adulthood, but unlike Vos, they aren’t really viewed as any form of kin, period, though you are expected to remain close to them later in life. Unlike Vos, where most ‘bots will be assigned one caretaker, sparklings will be given to groups of two or more (typically friends) and will be looked after by their social circles. However, during the reign of Sentinel Prime, an increasing amount of sparklings were raised in shoddy, state-run homes. 

[[Characters/Decepticons/High Command/Megatron\|Megatron]] and [[Galvatron\|Galvatron]] were raised in a group home, but due to the unfortunate circumstances that defined their childhood, the most stable figures in their lives were fellow laborers,  [[Characters/Decepticons/Terminus\|Terminus]] and [[Characters/Decepticons/Termagax\|Termagax]] chief among them. Even into their adulthood, they’ve remained close, but they regard them as mentors, rather than kin. 

[[Cybertron/Polities/Polyhex\|Polyhex]], on the other hand, _does_ regard sparklings’ caretakers as their family, and it’s entirely normal for ‘bots to form platonic spark bonds (there are lots of different kinds of spark bonds in Mirror Mirror, with different levels of intensity— spark bonding is seen as a deeply emotional act, among people with strong relationships, though the nature of that relationships and the bond itself is up to them) with their caretakers. They don’t use the word “parent” but for them, “caretaker” and “mentor” might as well mean the same thing. A sparkling will have one (and only one) primary caretaker, but they will be raised communally. A caretaker’s kin (both in the sense of being raised by or with them, and elective kin, conjunxes, and amica) will be regarded as kin of their sparkling

[[Helex\|Helex]] has a similar approach to parenthood as Polyhex, though a sparkling there can have multiple primary caretakers.

In [[Cybertron/Polities/Kalis\|Kalis]], sparklings are raised communally in what are essentially state-run boarding schools. The only kinship that exists there is elective or spark-based.
##### Notes
- The reason that sparklings exist in Mirror Mirror, aside from the fact that I like exploring what childhood looks like for aliens and I think the idea of Cybertronians having a larval stage is really funny, is to hammer home both the horrors of the Great War, and the exploitative nature of the pre-war government. Aside from the obvious “what if Lockheed Martin and Raytheon made people, wouldn’t that be fucked up?” one of the most horrifying things about cold constructs is the way that they are deprived of a childhood in every sense— they aren’t only stuffed into an adult frame right away, they are literally denied the ability to explore themselves and find out who they are on their own. They have no family ties, they have nobody to guide them through life beyond the company that created them, or the military that paid for their existence. This is even worse for M.T.O.s, who aren’t even given any education beyond the ability to kill— they are newborns, and yet, they are denied the innocence of childhood before they even have the chance to grasp what it is they’re losing. Giving Cybertronians a childhood makes the idea of being put through boot camp or outright dropped into a battlefield within a few hours of waking up all the more visceral— the companies that defined the pre-war world and the conflict that defined the wartime one stole a whole chapter of their lives from them, because they wanted workers and soldiers that they didn’t have to wait for. 
- Similarly, those forged during or before the war are akin to the tens of thousands of boys fresh out of high school who enlisted to fight in WWI. They’re thrown into war before they understand even themselves, and have their sense of the world so warped by conflict that once it ends, they find themselves lost in peacetime because they only ever learned to define themselves during and by the war that had been going on their whole adult life, if not their entire life.