---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cybertron/polities/vos/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---
  
One of the oldest [[Cybertron\|Cybertronian]] city-states. 
##### Notes
--- 
- Vos is an amalgamation of not only the city-state’s various depictions throughout the franchise’s history, but Crystal City as well. This is a nod to Starscream’s backstory in the Shattered Glass series put out by Fun Publications. 
- Vos, and [[Cybertron/Polities/Polyhex\|Polyhex]] being situated on floating islands is, in the context of Mirror Mirror, uncommon, but not unexpected. Floating islands are quite common on Cybertron, though few are large enough to build a city on, and even fewer have their own [[Cybertron/Cybertronian Biology/Sparkfield\|sparkfields]]. Some floating islands, like the [[Cybertron/Locations/Hydrax Plateau\|Hydrax Plateau]], are utterly massive. 
- Vosians with Trines wear matching wing patterns, which are painted grey upon the loss of two-thirds of the Trine— or, in some cases, when one declares that their Trinemates may as well be dead to them. Shoulder markings are also used to signify important positions in society, typically retired generals, religious leaders, and other important figures— shoulder markings are almost _never_ merely cosmetic for a Vosian. Trine markings are an example of how Vos prioritizes chosen family, and platonic relationships over all else, whereas shoulder markings originated within the Vosian military and spread outwards into civilian culture.
- Culturally speaking, in Vos, romance is not typically valued— the idea that you’re _supposed_ to find a partner and settle down does not exist in their culture. ‘Bots do get conjunxed, but it isn’t treated as an expected stage of life, or anything one should really aspire to. If it happens, it happens. 
- Characters built or forged in Vos include: [[Characters/Starscream\|Characters/Starscream]], [[Characters/Skywarp\|Characters/Skywarp]], [[Characters/Thundercracker\|Characters/Thundercracker]], [[Sunstorm\|Sunstorm]], [[Characters/Bitstream\|Characters/Bitstream]], [[Hotlink\|Hotlink]], [[Nacelle\|Nacelle]], [[Slipstream\|Slipstream]], [[Characters/Lyzack\|Characters/Lyzack]], [[Leozack\|Leozack]], [[Acid Storm\|Acid Storm]], [[Ion Storm\|Ion Storm]], [[Nova Storm\|Nova Storm]], [[Dirge\|Dirge]], [[Ramjet\|Ramjet]], [[Thrust\|Thrust]], [[Characters/Flyhigh\|Characters/Flyhigh]], [[Characters/Triggerhappy\|Characters/Triggerhappy]], [[Slugslinger\|Slugslinger]] [[Characters/Red Wing\|Characters/Red Wing]], [[Sideswipe\|Sideswipe]], and [[Sunstreaker\|Sunstreaker]].